Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about initialization and declaration of array
First let us see
how to declare an array. So this is this
syntax to declare a one dimensional array
where data type is the data type of the array and
It can be int, float, double, char etc and
array name is the name of the  array and it should be
a valid variable name
and size is the size of the array you
want and it should be an integer value within
square brackets
And at last we need to put a semi colon.
Now these are some examples int age[10],
char name[100], float weight[5] etc.
Now let's see how to initialise an array. So we can
initialise an array while declaring it like this
Just specify the values separated by commas within curly brackets
Now if you see the size of the array is 10
and the number of elements in the array is five so
in such cases where size is greater than number of
elements Then the remaining elements will be initialised with zero
Now if the size of the array is less than number
of elements in the array like this
Then the compiler will throw this  and we should avoid
this kind of initialisation
Now let's see how to initialise an array without specifying
the size
Here we don't specify the size but it will be
determined by the compiler
Now let us see a programme which takes input from
the user and store it in an array using a loop
and in case of arrays we know exact
array size while initialising it. so we can use for
loop
So we have the main function and we are declaring
an integer array arr with size five
So this array will be created and another integer variable  i
is created
And now we ask the user to enter the elements
and using a for loop with five iterations we read
these five elements to arr.
So in the first iteration, initialisation is done and
i =0 now and i is less than five
So we go inside and read the number entered by
the user into arr[i] which is arr[0]
So 10 is stored into arr[0]. now i is
incremented and it becomes 1. Now in the second iteration
condition is true since i is less than five
So suppose user enters the number 20
Now it is read into arr[1] and i is
incremented.  Now in the third iteration condition
is 2less than 5 which is true
So now user enters the number 30. It is read
into arr[2] and i is incremented and becomes
Now in the fourth iteration condition i less than five
is again true
So suppose user enters the number 40 now and it
is read into arr[3] and i is incremented. now
in the fifth iteration condition is 4less than 5
which is true
So now user enters the number 50
It is read into arr[4] and i is incremented
and it becomes five. now again when it checks the
condition i less than  5 it fails and control comes out
of the for loop. Now in the array we have 10
20 30 40 and 50
Now we have another for loop which prints the elements
in the array. so we have i=0 and iless than 5
So it goes inside and prints arr[0] which
is 10 and i will be incremented.
Now i = 1 and i less than  5
So the condition is true
So it goes inside and prints arr[i] which
is arr[1] which is 20 and i will
be incremented.
Now i has become 2 and i less than  5
So it prints arr[2] which is 30 and
i will be incremented
Now i=3 and 3 less than  5
So it goes inside and prints arr[3] which
is 40 and i will be incremented
Now i = 4 and 4 less than  5
so the condition is true
So it goes inside  and prints arr[4] which is 50
and i will be incremented Now I has become
5 and when it checks the condition i less than  5
It fails and control comes out of the for loop
and return zero .So that's all and thank you for watching this video.